Welcome back.
In this video we're going to focus on getting the NAF bar to display the links correctly so that when
you're not signed in you only see log in and sign up.
But when you are signed in you only see log out and then we can also display a little message that says
signed in as.
And then the user name signed in several signed in rest eat whatever it is.
Initially it had all of this at the end of the part for video and I started to move it out into a separate
video so they could spend a little more time going into some detail and explaining how some of this
works.
So let's get started.
And what I'm going to do is open up Hetter.
Yes.
And here are the three lines that are responsible for those three links right here.
Log in sign up log out in order to hide and show them appropriately.
We need to add some simple E.J. esque logic.
We'll have an if statement that looks something like this.
This is just pseudo code.
But if no user then will show log in and register and then else will show the log out link.
Now of course this isn't real javascript.
We'll have to work on that.
But what we'll do is pass a variable just like we've done here where we're passing in campground or
we're doing it on time here repassing campground again except we're going to pass a user object and
that user will contain information about the logged in user or if there is no logged in user.
It will be empty undefined and we can use that user variable instead of our template.
So if it's undefined.
We'll check if the user is undefined.
Show these otherwise show the log at link.
So let's begin by figuring out how can we get that data about the user.
And I'll just start on one of these routes and I'll do the campgrounds index page which is here after
I get slash campgrounds because it's a nice simple route and a lot of our code redirects back to this
route.
And the secret to all of this the important part is request direct user.
So request that user will contain all of the information.
Well not all of it but the user name and the ID of the currently logged in user.
So I'll show you.
Let's just do a cancel that log requests at user and start the server up and then I'll go refresh.
And we get undefined.
And that's because there's no currently logged in user.
So request that users empty.
It doesn't exist.
But then once I log in what passport will do is create requests that user input the user data just the
username and the ID not the password or anything but username and ID inside of request user.
So a log in Severus password click log in Lets go look you can see this is now request that user.
It's going to be really useful for us in our templates.
So I'm going to pass that through now.
Get rid of that.
And then after campgrounds we'll just have another variable Akol current user that's equal to request
user.
And then in our template we can write some simple logic that checks if there is a current user.
And then in our template we can add some very simple logic using the current user variable.
So let's save and let's go to index that.
Yes.
Which is the campgrounds index and just at the very top.
Let's just add a little H for that just print out current user and let's restart the server.
And if I go right now we don't see anything but if I log in several again and again I now see current
user.
So we're now passing that data through into our template but rather than using it instead of this index
template we actually want to use it inside of the nav bar template the header.
And remember we do have access to any of the variables that we pass through our template.
Even inside of Parshall's.
So inside each us we're going to add an if statement and it just looks like this.
If there is no current user we could just do that then display those two links and then we'll have our
else
display the log out link and then of course we need our Ejaz tags.
So let's do that no equal signs just like that.
And we're almost done
so we're checking if a current user variable is empty then we're going to show these.
Otherwise we'll show the logout link.
But this will only work right now at least on this route slash campgrounds because we're not passing
current user through on any other routes.
But let's just make sure that it does work.
So I'll restart the app if I refresh the page.
Great.
I only see log in and sign up and that's because I'm not logged in.
Now if I click on logon we will have a problem which is that we have the header file and it's trying
to use current user but we didn't pass current user through.
So actually this will happen on any route that has are now Ackbar because we're not passing current
user through except on slash Capgras.
So what we want to do is pass current user through basically this line right here on every single route
.
And on some of them it might be empty some of them will have user data but we want it available on every
route.
And there's an easy way of doing that where we don't have to manually added to every single route and
up top before our routes just to add in another update use after use and we'll add our own little middleware
.
Whatever function we provide to it will be called on every route.
So we're going to give it a function request response and we need that next variable also.
And what we want to do is pass that request at user to every single template and there's an easy way
of doing that.
Sake rez locals.
Current User request user whatever we put in rest at local's is what's available instead of our template
and then the other really important thing is you need to move on to the actual next code because this
is a middleware that will run for every single route.
If we don't have this next it will just stop.
Nothing will happen next so we need to have the next in order to move on to that next middleware which
will actually be the route handler in most cases.
So now if we try this restart the server refresh the page.
This should work just fine.
If I go to log in I now have the log in form and I'm not getting an error.
And I see the correct links because I'm not logged in.
Now if I log in as sèvres again
I only see log out great and try clicking on log out.
Awesome.
So it's working.
The last thing that I wanted to do is that when you're signed in let's do this one more time.
You want to see up here rather than log in and sign up.
You want to see currently signed in as Zephyrus and that's pretty easy to do.
Instead of our headed each.
Yes we already have current user so if there is a current user in this else we'll just add another ally
and that Ally will just add in the text.
Let's do signed in as.
And then we just interpret or we add in with each as tags.
Current User dot username and save restart and let's see how this looks.
We might need to style it a little bit refresh.
Let's lie again.
Signed in as Severus.
And yes we do want to style that.
So let's make it an anchor tag like the other ones and we'll just not give it an H ref so you can get
finger tag Atra equals just the pound sign.
It might make sense for this to actually be a link to the profile page though which we don't have.
But if we had profile pages you could click this and it would take you to your profile but this is fine
for now.
So will log out that should go away.
Let's try registering and see how that works.
So I'll sign up as Mrs purple and the password will be purple.
Sign up and re get signed in as Mrs purple and we can log out and let's just double check everything
.
That if I try and add a new comment I have access to it but if I log out and I try and do that I can't
It asked me to log in first.
OK so we're officially done with the basics of adding auth to Joachim.
Let's take a moment to review the new things that we saw in this lesson.
In particular using request the user which we set right here request that user will be either empty
if no one signed in or it will contain the username in the ID of the current user so we're using an
after use which will call this function on every single wrap so it's a nice way to dry up or code where
we didn't have to go and do this on every route and we can actually get rid of it now because we're
passing it through using or after 8 years and then the other thing is that in our template we're just
writing a simple IF statement and combining that logic with each T.M. can be really powerful.
We can show and hide these buttons.
We can show who's currently logged in.
Really important stuff.
OK so that was a bit of a marathon definitely.
Five different sections but we got it to work.
We created the user models first.
We created the Sign-Up registration forms and routes and then log in and then the log out and then finally
we worked on the nav bar and showing and hiding links and displaying the currently logged in user.
All right I'll see you in the next unit